In general, would you say that, as you look back, that A&M students treat each other with reasonable fairness, equity?
At most part, yes, but one thing
that I was really, this year, that I would say a lot and try to focus on was that when you're here, there's a lot of different groups on campus.
And you don't talk very well about some of those.
For example, the Halls don't always talk great about the core.
Definitely not about Greeks.
But I think it's a hypocritical thing when we go outside, we graduate,
and I see somebody with an Aggie ring and I go up to them and say, you're an Aggie, we should talk.
Why can't you always be like that here?
I mean, it's a big hypocritical thing, in my opinion, to do something like that.
But in general, I think we get along well enough.
Now in class, no faculty I presume ever made any difference in the way they treated core, non-core, male, female and so forth.
Yeah.
Your junior year you're getting more active in all this, and when did you learn that you were admitted to engineering fully?
Spring of your sophomore year?
I would say so, yeah.
By that time I knew I was in and I was pretty happy.
How did you learn?
Did you get a phone call, a letter?
I got a letter that said you had been admitted into the upper level.
And you then select what specialty in engineering?
Electrical.
And that had been your goal always?
Uh-huh.
All right.
And your grades are going up.
They're still up there.
Did somebody, did you then find somebody in electrical engineering that you would turn to for advice and counsel?
No.
Ooh, I see that's something that's different now from what it used to be.
And your GPA has moved on up.
Your junior year then you get more involved in student activities and so forth.
Yes.
That year I become R.J. delegate for Walton.
I become public relations for Mexican Student Association.
I'm still a reporter.
I get involved heavily more in Bonfire.
What did you do?
You're still loading?
Yeah, we're still loading, but since I'm a junior now, I do a little bit different things here and there.
I help with the fuck sticks, and I help fuck stick the trucks, and what else did I do?
I was just more involved with campus and with Walton.
And again, about how long, how many weeks, Bonfire?
Six, seven, eight, I can't remember.
It was at least two, two and a half months.
And every day or just weekends?
Just weekends.
Saturday and Sunday?
Sometimes during the week when we started building Bonfire itself.
And that was a year that it fell in 99.
Where were you when you heard the news?
It was a very interesting story because the night it fell,
That morning, I had one class.
I didn't have any homework to do.
I had finished everything.
And there was this one freshman from back home that was here.
And I had talked to him for a while.
And we took him out twice to load.
So he had yet to see how a bonfire was being built.
And that night, I said, hey, his name was Juan.
I was like, I'd like to take you out there and see how it's all going.
I mean, you're not doing anything tonight, neither am I.
And he kind of agreed.
So I put on my clothes.
And I was ready.
And I saw him sitting down and he's like, you know, I'm watching.
We started watching The Devil's Advocate, which was kind of ironic.
And he said, I don't want to go anymore.
And Walton had already left.
And I saw him and I was like, oh, you gotta be kidding.
It's like, I'm already dressed.
And he didn't want to go.
So I decided to just get back into my clothes and go to sleep.
And I remember going to bed.
And I don't remember anything about that night.
I just went to bed and I fell asleep kind of, you know, very happily.
I remember waking up the next morning because there was a phone call.
And we're in the loft and our phone is down there, so we didn't want to get up.
We just heard the machine and it said something like, it was my roommate's sister saying, I hope you guys are okay.
I hope there's nothing wrong with you or whatever.
And she was calling from where?
From Austin.
And we just ignored it.
I had an 8 o'clock that morning, or a 9, 8 or 9, soccer class.
And then another call, another friend called from here, from A&M, and she said, she's calling to see if you guys are okay.
I'm just worried about you, blah, blah, blah.
Then my roommate says, something happened.
And we get up, and I start getting down, and I hear the door knock.
My suite mate coming in, he's like, did you guys hear already?
I was like, what?
He's like, bonfire fell.
He's like, yeah, it's on TV.
I remember turning on the TV, and I saw a stack lying over.
But it didn't hit me.
I was just like, huh.
That's very weird.
And then my roommate got up, and we're like, let's go see what happened.
So we ride over.
And we saw the conferences and whatever, not the conference, the President speak and Dr. Bowen speak.
By that time, I still hadn't, like it still hadn't hit me.
So I went back and I went to class and some of my friends looked at me and they were like, they sighed with relief because they knew how involved I was.
I went back over there with the first help out crew while we went over.
And we started helping out with the logs and all that stuff.
And about what time?
I would say about 10.
In the morning.
By that time, I was getting more understanding of what was going on.
It was starting to hit me.
And then I remember being there for a while, and I had to go to another class, my math class.
And by that time, I was getting really upset.
It was pissing me off that a lot of other teachers had already canceled classes, and this guy had not.
And I was getting really, it was getting to me.
And I went back one more time.
By that time, I kind of fully understood what was going on because I was so close to the stack.
And my first two thoughts were, can you imagine if I was trapped?
The anguish that I would be going through.
And the second thing that has just hit my mind was those parents of those students that have already died, how they must be feeling right now.
And I thought about my parents.
I made the mistake of not calling them until later on that night.
My mom would tell me that she saw my dad turn white because they were calling me and they couldn't get me.
And I made that mistake of not calling them.
When you were out there in the work area, did you see any victim?
You didn't hear or see any human noises?
By that time they didn't let us even go close to that.
Oh, oh, oh.
Okay.
And that's why I didn't see anything.
What were your friends, what were they doing?
What was their attitude?
Some of them had been there, but they had left because they were told not to go there.
And some of them were just really sad.
One of them was going to be at Brown Pot that night, so he was out there.
And I got to talk to him for a while.
He did see a lot of the bodies and victims.
Were you all surprised, you and your friends, were you all surprised that the bonfire collapsed?
Definitely.
It was a shock.
And I remember the day after so well because we were sitting down.
It was such a dark day.
It was a cloudy day and we were talking about it and we were like, wow, such a dark day that happened.
You know, it goes with the mood of this.
And after that, I think everything has changed so much in this campus.
Did you know any, were you acquainted with any of the?
Not so much acquainted, but one of them would load so much with us.
He was in Squadron 17, Jerry Self.
Self, S-E-L-F?
Yes.
And we knew him.
And he's the only guy that has ever gotten a load shirt, not being in Wong.
When he passed away they gave it to his family to put in the coffin.
It was very nice.
As you and your friends have observed what the decision made about Bonfire, how do you feel about that decision?
See, the big thing was that with my position, I had to be part of the steering committee, the one that oversaw everything.
As part of RHA?
Yes, sir.
So from the beginning of this year, I've been so much into it, a big force, because in my opinion,
A&M, the heart of A&M are the residence halls and the Corps of Cadets.
But the Corps only has about close to 2,000 people as compared to the 9,000 that the on-campus has.
And there's so much work and everything that goes from the on-campus people.
So everything that has to go on has to be part of the residence halls.
So that to me is the most important aspect of this campus.
So that was a big push for us was to try to get a bonfire back because since I was a freshman, I've seen how much it's declined.
A lot of people keep saying that it's not the defining spirit and have to disagree because if they look at it now, there's nothing close to what there was even two years ago.
If you could have been the decision maker, what would you have decided about bonfire in the future?
Would we have a bonfire?
And if so, what kind of dimensions would it be?
I would have one with the dimensions that they wanted to do them this year.
A single stack?
A single stack.
All the logs touching the ground.
I would kind of go with what they had now.
And I know it was a lot of trouble trying to get insurance and everything like that, but I really do believe there is a way to make it safe.
But on the other hand, I also believe that our bonfire, what we know, died
in 99 when it fell.
What do we do in the future then?
Right now, this is one thing that I decided to do, was make up this committee under RHA that was going to plan events, not to take over a bonfire, but to look to get people involved with so many different events.
It's called the Go Big Committee.
Go Big?
Go Big.
And it's in full force right now, and they're playing so much.
And I'm really proud of those guys, because I put in different chairs to Jared.
I put four guys and one girl.
And they're doing such a great job that people are getting so pumped up.
People want to be part of this.
So they'll have something in the next fall to look forward to.
And so far I'm looking at great ideas and everything that I'm kind of proud that I'm going to leave and actually leave happy.
All right, back to, let's see, your third year you become an engineering student
Your grades start going up.
By that time they're kind of leveling again.
Okay.
And you're still, are you still increasing your study efforts or did that level off?
Kind of leveled off to moderately going up and down.
It's just a little wavering thing.
As you look back now, not far from commencement, what were the key courses
for you at Texas A&M?
What were the most important courses you've had?
My electrical engineering 214, which was a circuit one.
What?
Electrical engineering 214, which was the first kind of circuit course.
Circuit course.
Okay.
So I didn't understand the circuit.
Which I kind of learned about the circuits.
That has to be one of the most important ones.
my electrical engineering 322 class, which is electromagnetics, which kind of helped me out a lot.
I would say those two are kind of very important.
And were there some other teachers that you now would want to pat on the back?
No.
All right.
After you got involved in engineering, did you go back home and have the same kind of job after your?
No, that year I didn't go home.
I stayed here for the summer.
Now this is your fifth year?
Uh-huh.
Okay.
How did you get to be the president of RHA?
How does one campaign for that job?
Well, first, after my junior year, for my senior year, I ran for president of Walton.
and that was
It's not a big job, but it was a hard job because it was the first year that there was no bonfire.
And our hall became like the White House of this campus to where we were so still full of energy and full of spirit while everybody else was just, this is a weird word to use, dying around us.
People weren't there doing the stuff they used to because they knew there wasn't a bonfire that year.
So excitement and unity wasn't there.
Our hall, under our leadership, stayed up there.
and they still did so much stuff and everybody looked up to us.
And that year RHA started losing all of its members.
It was just a bad year for RHA that year.
The relationships with it were just going bad.
They lost three out of their five executives and most of their pod members, board of directors.
And
That year I got even more involved than before.
I was still in Manners, I was still in MSA.
I was going over some other clubs.
I became part of Aggie Spirits for Unity, Pro Traditions.
We were looking at keep the fire burning when it was coming out because I still believed we could still do a bonfire.
I became leader in pro-traditions.
I became one of the student leaders.
Of course President Walton and all that other stuff and we still saw RHA going down.
In my opinion it was going down and they were having so many internal problems.
So after that year
I had been talking or talking to some people about becoming president or trying to run for president.
And I knew there was three other people that wanted to do it as well.
And at one point I said, no, I don't want to do it anymore.
I was getting kind of tired of a lot of stuff.
But I had some people say, hey, do it, you know.
So I got to a point where I said, OK, I'm going to run for president of RJ.
And from what I remember, nobody wanted to be part of it.
My VP of administration said, if you do it, I'm going to do it with you.
My vice president of program said, you do it, I do it.
And this other girl said the same thing, you do it, I do it.
And then I had some other board people that wanted to be part of the board that said, if you do it, I'm going to go in.
So after a while, I just had to do it.
So you had a slate that ran with you.
I went in and I kind of inherited an organization that had nothing.
How did y'all campaign?
Did you knock on doors?
Well, the only way
where we can campaign is on campus.
And when we started this, those other three people that wanted to do it dropped out.
So I was running on the post.
So I just helped out my friend, Boo Boo, who was running for your leader with his campaign.
So I really didn't need a campaign because nobody else was running against me.
Now, how did you know Boo Boo?
From loading back in our freshman year.
Now, he's a civilian.
Yeah.
And you and I know, anyone listening to this tape might not know, Boo Boo
is a large, young, black man.
Yes, he is.
Very large.
And how, when did you all get acquainted?
Probably our freshman, sophomore year.
And his name is, is it two words, B-O-O space B-O-O, or is it one word?
How does he write Boo Boo?
He does B-O-O
Space BO.
So it's capital B, capital B. Yeah.
What's his last name?
Davis.
Boo Boo Davis from where?
Do you know?
He was born in Africa.
but he's from Prairie View, Texas.
And what's his major, do you know?
He was math and I don't know what else he became and now he's RPTS.
What's RPTS?
Recreation and parks and something like that, tourism and sciences.
Alright, so you are elected and you served this 2001-2002 year.
And the interesting thing was
I got in there and like I said, there was one person I was staying.
Everybody that had been part of it left.
The relationships to their groups were not there.
And I came in and there was only one person staying over.
He was a director of service and he became the vice president for programs.
Everybody else, the other
Out of the four VPs, three of them ran on a post as well because I was going to do it.
And the funny thing is that since not all of them decided to do it with me and write in, they had to throw those elections out and we had to have a special election.
So it was a big deal at first.
And then finally we had those three.
There was only one position that two people ran for it, and I talked to the other person and I said, hey, if either of you lose, would you be willing to do the other VP?
And they said yes.
And the funny thing is that that one person that lost, who became vice president of operations, will be the next RJ president.
So we did that, and we had a few people wanting to do board of directors.
And I remember it was a hard summer and a hard
rest of the semester from that my senior year so I went out trying to recruit people to be part of our organization.
Now did y'all have a kind of an office?
Yes it's in Colesville.
In Colesville and is there a staff person there to help y'all?
Yeah there was a brand new position called the coordinator of leadership training and our advisor his name is Craig Rotter.
Craig Rogers?
Rotter.
Rotter how do you spell it do you know?
R-O-T-T-E-R. R-O-T-T-E-R.
Describe him and his...
He is going in for his third degree, for his doctorate.
He graduated his undergrad in 92, came back and I don't remember when his second one was.
He's been kind of really involved.
He knows a lot of people here.
He was teaching in the Ag
Ag education, Ag department.
Was he a civilian student?
Yeah.
He lived on, did he live on campus?
No, he never lived on campus.
He lived off campus.
He's never lived on it.
And he's really wise.
He's really helped us a lot.
He really cares about the students here.
He goes out there and
works till like 11 at night, goes home, and he just puts out so much time.
Right, so your major problem at the start is to get things going again, is that right?
Yeah, to start from pretty much scratch.
And so what did you do to make that work?
Right after the banquet, when I officially became president, I went right to work.
Getting to know the people from the Corps, the student body president, MSC.
Like I just went out and I started building these relationships already.
This summer all I did was go to meetings and I get to know the advisor, Craig.
I met with him probably every single day.
and I met with Skyler Hauser, which was the student body president for this year, the five Yale leaders, the people from the MSC, Greek, I mean I went all over the place.
We got this concert started that was for All You Night, because All You Night got rained out this year.
So that concert became the focal point this year.
Then I had this, what I call the big meeting,
where I got all the leaders of the dorms, got them together, explained to them what was going to go on this year, what we were expecting, and everything like that.
And I just, I would like to say I worked my ass off to where now I saw people ran for the positions.
There's about 30 people wanting to get a board of directors spot.
When I did it, I could barely get five people to do it.
I had to go out and recruit people.
and ask them to be if they wanted to.
I mean, it was just so hard.
And now the relationships are there.
I mean, for the first time, halls are acting.
Not only are they doing stuff within the hall, but they're doing halls with other halls.
Southside is doing stuff with Northside for the first time ever.
Northside and, I mean, court and residence halls have a great relationship for the first time ever.
SGA and RHA are better than they've ever been.
So, I mean it's been a really hard semester and I was, I like to say I'm burned out.
When Vice President Colas has a gathering of key student leaders, who is in that group?
Sutherland?
Mm-hmm.
Vice President Sutherland?
Okay.
They have Student Body President, R.J. President, Corps Commander, M.S.E.
President.
That meeting is called the SLAC, Student Leaders Advisory Council.
And they're about maybe 20, 14 to 20 people.
But mostly it's the head of the highest organizations.
All the fraternities, the head of the interfraternity, and they have four different ones.
And then some other, there's about 14 people.
But they're all the highest.
Which student leadership position has the greatest authority or greatest influence?
Actually, in my own opinion, I think I ranked them.
the way I think it is.
Student body president is at the top.
I mean, she represents the whole student body.
And then second and third, I still have them.
It's either RHA president and corps commander because they are the two biggest parts of this campus and the two biggest organizations by far with the most authority of what's going on.
And the reason why I have them, I have RHA actually on top and that's because
the president of RHA overlooks overseas close to 9,000 students as opposed to the 2,000 that the core has.
After that I would say MSC president because that group has so much money and so much influence.
And then the other spot is the head Yale leader.
They don't have a lot of change, a lot of power, but they have so much influence on this campus.
Now, the students that are left out by their own choice are those who live off campus who aren't
affiliated with anything?
Pretty much.
I would say they're the ones that are most left out and don't have the experience that on campus people have.
Because being on campus, you have the experience.
Everything's around you.
Oh, sure.
You have more of a chance to be more involved.
But even those people decide not to do stuff, and I think they just throw away four great years of their life because there's so much more than just going and studying.
I mean, everybody probably will graduate somehow if they put a little bit of effort.
but you'll never have that opportunity to come back and say, I did this.
What were the major problems you ran into?
Oh, there were so many.
One of the big problems this year, I don't know if you might have heard, we had this big thing about the American flag on campus.
where they thought we were banning, RHA was banning the American flag when the September 11 attacks happened.
When all we were doing, there was, there's this rule in the handbook of the rest of the side that they don't want you to put stuff outside of your window for fear that you might fall off or something.
Everything inside you, because it's right there, that's fine.
And somebody brought up a resolution and we say we were, we're against the resolution how it was written, but it became a national deal.
were Aggies from all over the nation, all over the world were calling us communists.
And that brought our group a lot closer to each other because everybody was attacking us.
I had a lot of personal attacks.
And one of the goals that I had said was I was going to bring controversy, positive or negative, to RHA because it was so dead from the year before.
And that was much more than I ever expected because I had emails that said,
I think you're a communist, personally, and some of the people that were really rude.
One that I will never forget was somebody sent me an email after I had sent a response that said, we're not against the flag, we're against the resolution, and we're all Aggies, and we're pro-USA and all that stuff.
I sent out a response.
He sent me one back and said, the first word was Jose, after he had written to my name.
And he said, you're a great liar.
You would be great for the Democratic Party.
And it was just so funny that he said Democratic Party.
He didn't say a party or anything, but he said the Democratic Party.
And you didn't say Jorge, you said Jose.
Yeah, that's what he wrote it to.
Oh, oh, oh.
He emailed to my account, which said Jorge, but his first line was Jose.
And these people that had mean things to say
Was most of it on email, or did nobody?
Well, a lot of people said they heard a lot of the radio stations, like in even the newspapers in Dallas and Austin.
They were calling us, one of the funny ones, we were being called faggies, and the communists, and people hated us.
And that was a big deal.
Like we really got on the map.
Alright, and then if you needed advice on any of those matters, you turned to?
Craig, once in a time.
Alright.
Did anybody either at the beginning of your year or during the year call you in and give, tell you to do or not to do something?
No.
They, people always had like, maybe you should do this, but
When I went in, I said I wasn't going to be anybody's puppet.
You know, I was there to represent our on-campus students, what I thought was correct.
And I never did stuff that I thought was right.
I would always think about the campus and how this campus has changed.
And if somebody said something, I would say, we'll see what the students want.
If the students want another bonfire off campus, we're going to support it.
What about other problems?
that you had to cope with?
Of course, getting over a lot of the old thoughts.
old bonfire thoughts because this place is had so much so many people thinking like in the old days bonfire days and even though it's been like two three years it still seems like it's been such a long time a lot of those thoughts and having to explain to a lot of my friends what our plan was and how we're representing them with bonfire every day i had to explain to like 10 different people our ideas and what i was going for and
It just burned me out.
It just tired me out having to explain to so many people my thoughts and what I wanted to do and why I thought it was right.
Did people come to your room to bother you some?
Sometimes.
I mean, I always had people going up there and going like, what do you think of this?
And the phone calls also got to me at times.
Especially during that flag thing because I would have the texts in and so many newspapers calling all the time wanting interviews.
At one point I was really tired.
What were your proudest moments, happiest?
Right, I would say the other day that I went to the RHA office and I saw the application for board of directors.
When I had nobody wanting to do it, I saw about 30 people wanting to do it.
That's one.
The other thing is seeing the impact we have made.
and seeing how much people respect RHA because everywhere I go now, we can't do anything without RHA's approval because I think now everybody knows that if on campus people get pissed, it's pretty much down.
You won't have that thing going on because they'll be against it.
During your year of RHA leadership, how often did you have any contact with President Bowen?
I had to go to a lot of his dinners and stuff like that, meetings that he had to be there.
And I would say a proud moment, or not a proud moment, but something that I could be proud of is that that man meets so many people, that he knows me by name.
And that's something that I guess I could be proud of.
You know you've done a good thing when they know you by your name.
And how often did you encounter Vice President Southern?
That's a lot of times.